# PriceOfSilver
Over the past few years, I have begun putting money away for retirement, mostly in the stock market.  However, due to outside forces and political battles, the stock market no longer holds my full confidence in giving me the returns I have grown to expect.  For this, I have decided to balance out my portfolio in precious metals.  For this project, I have decided that silver would be the metal of choice due to its affordability and it has been grabbing my interest due to its seemingly inverse relationship to the stock market.  
Before I dive into what I’ve decided to look at for the project, I, first, would like to mention some of the questions I wanted to answer with this project, or, at the very least, be able to point me in the right direction.  What time of year is the best time to buy?  Is it okay to assume that silver goes up when the market is down?  What about the holidays?  Do prices go up, down, or stay the same around Christmas?
Other tools out there can help in answering some of these questions, but most of them graph years chronologically, which really doesn’t help to point out the obvious trends in the monthly cycles.  This tool would not only be able to present years, by month, on top of each other, but it can also become an extended module for future projects for people looking to compare precious metals against say the S & P 500 and/or the Dow Jones market.  It could even be in conjunction with inflation to help determine what your real gains or losses are over time.
The website I have decided to use for the data on silver is: http://www.usagold.com/reference/prices/silverhistory.php
Despite being able to download the data to an Excel spreadsheet, the data is a mess (See Figure1.png).  All the descriptive data was transposed across the top of the file in some sort of multi-indexed table, which is tough to work with for any software.  Since I am looking at USD currency for this project, I would also have to isolate those columns.  In addition, due to the time constraints of this project, I have also decided to use average prices only, so I filtered out high and low prices (highlighted).  
The main libraries I used were pandas, os, matplotlib, and sys.  I used pandas to read the data into data frames, os to open your [the user’s] file path directory, matplotlib to graph the results, and sys to end the program if the user inputs in 3 incorrect file paths.  This gives the end user the opportunity to cancel out of the program earlier if he/she decides.
As you look at Figure1.png, you will also notice that the dates are not only offset every 13th day, but they are also in the format dd/mm/yyyy.  I would much rather see them in mm/dd/yyyy.  At first glance, I almost assumed they were in the format I was expecting, but then noticed the “13/01/91”, which is obviously not mm/dd/yyyy.  
In addition, if you look at the dates, you can see that we still have blanks going into 1991 for USD.  This is likely due to the lack of information transference, or lack of our world wide web.  This fills in completely around June 1991, which is where my project dates begin.
This tool asks the end-user for a folder where both the 1968 to 2015 data and the 2016 to present data is stored (Figure2.png).  As you can see, mine are stored in the “Inputs” folder.  The name of the folder is not that important.  It’ll then ask if the tab names I set are the same ones you have named for yours.  This can be done at this step or it can be done within the main() function, since I have set the 2nd and 3rd to the tab names.  If this program later gets a GUI built around it, the functionality in setting your own tab names will still be there.  I’ve also added the ability for the user to skip each question (assumed response would be “yes”) to reduce additional keystrokes.
Next, it will ask you to enter up to 4 years you want to see graphed.  (See Figure3).  I chose years 2009-2011.  Obviously, if you are running this script in a console, you will not be able to see the graph.  However, if you go up a folder from where you saved the input files, you’ll see that I have created an output folder for you and, inside it you’ll find a graph pdf of your plot.

Running the code:
1)	Unzip the file somewhere on your computer
2)	The class file is called Final_Project1.py
3)	Run the main() file, which is called smarple@bu.edu_project.py
4)	Follow the instructions laid out in the program
a.	Enter the full path to the folder where you are storing the inputs
b.	Open the files to confirm the names of the tabs prior to answering the next 2 questions
c.	Close the input files
d.	The program will ask you if the tab names are different from the ones it is expecting
i.	If you decided you want to test the script and you want to change the tab names, this is where you would answer “N” or “NO”, followed by the name you have changed it to.  This functionality is for people who want to use the script, but want to get updated information and don’t want to have to remember my naming convention for the tabs.
ii.	Otherwise skip both questions by hitting y and enter, or just enter on each question.
e.	Once the program has finished transforming your inputs, it’ll ask you to enter up to 4 years that you would like to have compared against each other.
i.	Note:  The closer together the years are, the better graphs you’ll get back (due to the price differences).  If you choose 2002, 2003, and 2009, it may look like the early years are flatlining, due to the graph’s scale.  However, there may be some serious peaks and valleys that you are not seeing, which can lead to misinterpretation of what is happening over the annual cycles.
